In a world where soundbites and click bait headlines are the order of the day, businesses’ spokespeople must be media-trained if their brands are to survive and thrive in a content-hungry world. With social media and online news cycles running faster than the speed of thought, it’s no longer possible to take hours or days to prepare statements or spokespeople. Spokespeople must be skilled and prepared enough to provide comment on the spot, when they’re asked, no matter who asks them. This is because the ‘media’ doesn’t always present itself as a professional journalist – there are opportunities to share your brand’s messaging in informal interactions at private events, just as much as there are more formal, controlled opportunities to introduce your brand. Having a well-trained spokesperson who can provide comment quickly and comprehensively is one of the most effective ways to build a brand’s reputation – and to build the relationships that will position the brand in good standing when (not if) a crisis hits. Relationships like this mean that media will have an insight into the people behind the brand in times of trouble and are more likely to create neutral stories than they are to sensationalise an issue. Media training teaches skills that are essential beyond media relations too – knowing how to land key messages and respond to tricky questions in a sales or stakeholder meeting is powerful and valuable. A solid media training offering provides more than just guidance on how to land messaging, it also offers practical skills, like teaching how to control and use body language to your benefit, and how to set up a virtual interview for maximum success. At Tribeca Public Relations, we believe that there are non-negotiables that must be included in a media training service, with our own training course offering these key elements, among others: These skills and insights are invaluable whether you’re in front of the media, your shareholders and stakeholders, or even your broader network at a social or networking event. While your public relations agency is there to identify and create the platforms for your brand, it’s up to your spokespeople to make the most of those opportunities, both to build its reputation when times are good, and to protect it in times of crisis. Nicola Tarr is a business unit director at Tribeca Public Relations. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.