As we get back to work and usher in a new year, a few 5FM DJs share what they are most looking forward to in 2022 and sum up their 2021 in just one word. Describe the year you’ve had in one word? What are you most looking forward to in 2022? Dan Corder Mindblowing. 5FM with the COVID handbrake off. This station has done magnificently in response to a pandemic situation the likes of which no radio industry has ever faced before, and hopefully 2022 will bring more opportunities to ‘fully 5FM again’. Nicole da Silva Introspective. Traveling overseas for our belated honeymoon, new challenges and accomplishing my personal goals Nadia Romanos Rollercoaster. Travelling more, hopefully! Edah Setati Introspective. Starting a radio academy in my township. Smash Afrika KeMovie. Getting more done during the pandemic and creating memorable moments with my listeners on 5FM Xoli Zondo Overwhelming. To dream even bigger and see those dreams realised, to compete with the person I was in 2021 and to be more present in every situation I am in. Stephanie B Unparalleled. I’m really looking forward to challenging myself, growing and learning. Hopefully I’ll also have a few adventures in-between, with some travel as the cherry on top. Nick Hamman Growth. Taking more chances, going on more adventures and hopefully less Covid Mathapelo Moloi Life-Changing. If anything, the past year has taught me is to show-up. And this year I’m looking forwarding to doing exactly that – showing up and stepping up in all aspects of my life. To engaging more, to solidifying existing relationships and forming new ones, to work even harder, to laugh more and to intentionally spread more love. Tshepi Seakamela Impeccable Achieving more dreams and goals. Living life to the fullest while making amazing radio and memories! Yanga Mjoli Blessing. I’m looking forward to graduating. And attending every single wedding – so many friends and family members got engaged this year and meeting nieces and nephews for the first time – I had cousins who had babies this year. Looking forward – the outlook looks positive regardless of the state of things at the moment. Looking forward to 2022, which I know will be better than 2021 – which in turn – was better than 2020. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.