The World Out of Home Organization’s first Africa Forum is set to take place on Thursday 3 February 2022, with sessions from 13:00-15:00 and 14:00-16:00. The virtual event features an expert line-up of speakers from Africa and beyond, and is set to cover all aspects of the OOH industry on the continent, along with its place in the wider media market – beginning with a keynote interview between Omnicom Media Group’s head of Africa, Celia Collins, and WOO president,Tom Goddard. Jacques du Preez, founder of Provantage Media Group (PMG) will present an overview of the African OOH market, which, he says, presents a massive opportunity –  along with several critical challenges. Du Preez will consider just what makes the African OOH market so attractive, from its growing middle class and rapid urbanisation to its wealth of natural resources, before giving an overview of the media industry and key media trends, including the growth and increasing importance of DOOH, and the expansion of global and regional OOH companies driving innovation. As OOH markets vary considerably across the continent, Du Preez will also compare key OOH markets in North, West, East and Southern Africa. The Africa Forum will also feature a number of panels.  Gurooh’s Gideon Adey, Trish Guilford from the Out of Home Measurement Council (OMC) in South Africa and Jorja Wilkins of Primedia Outdoor will discuss audience measurement, an integral aspect in the growth of OOH. Pikasso founder, Antonio Vincenti, will present on the standardisation of formats in OOH and how they can drive business for all. Finally, Maarten Dollevoet, chief revenue officer at Broadsign, Francesca Vincenti, head of programmatic at Pikasso and Remi Du Preez, commercial director at Tractor Outdoor, will examine breakthrough progress in automation and programmatic in the African market. “The World Out of Home Organisation’s first Africa Forum is an ideal opportunity for industry professionals to gain insight into various aspects of the industry, from some of the most knowledgeable and experienced players currently active,” says Du Preez. “And the timing couldn’t be better, coming as it does just when the industry is showing signs of recovery post-pandemic. “PMG believes OOH is set to grow substantially across all African markets, and events like this have a role to play in educating those active in the industry, and facilitating this development.” The Africa Forum is the third stop in WOO’s World Tour, following events in Europe and Asia, and eventually set to culminates in WOO’s in-person Global Congress in Toronto from 25-27 May 2022. To register for the WOO Africa Forum, click here. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.