[PRESS OFFICE] Following the recent announcement regarding Lynda Fiebiger’s appointment as managing director of FoxP2 South Africa (SA), two additional key leadership appointments have been made for dentsu SA’s award-winning creative agency. Effective February 2022, Sakhumzi ‘Saki’ Piliso and Nyiko ‘Ray-Ray’ Mphande joined the FoxP2 business and leadership team as executive creative directors. “I am absolutely delighted to have Saki, Ray-Ray and their team join the FoxP2 business. Having worked with some incredible creative minds throughout my career, I am truly excited to be adding Ray-Ray and Saki to the list and look so forward to working alongside them as we further entrench our creative offerings to the business and to our clients,” commented Lynda Fiebiger, managing director at FoxP2. Having previously co-founded Street Science in 2015, a BBBEE Level 1, 100% black owned and managed boutique creative consultancy firm, Saki and Ray-Ray are no strangers to the marketing and advertising industry with a commendable track record across brand communication, strategy, creative storytelling, production, strategic design and digital. Starting their inspirational careers as a junior copywriter and art director team at The Jupiter Drawing Room, the creative, award-winning duo has been working together (on and off) since 2006 on some of SA’s most exciting campaigns. Most notable; the MTN 2010 Ayoba campaign during Africa’s First Soccer World Cup, where Ray-Ray was also selected as a MTN Brand ambassador and the face of the campaign. Outside of traditional advertising, the team have also co-directed and produced short films such as Awakening Truth with Brandon Auret and music videos for iconic South African musicians and bands such as TKZee and Infa from Skwatta Kamp. On joining FoxP2, Ray-Ray and Saki said: “For us this is a great opportunity and blessing to take what we’ve learned on the Streets and bring it to the boardroom. Being part of dentsu not only means that we will be working on some of SA’s most iconic brands, but it also positions us to work closely with some of the countries brightest and sharpest minds in integrating data expertise, with technology and our creative storytelling. It’s onwards and upwards only.” Working alongside Lynda Fiebiger and Sello Leshope, strategy director at FoxP2, Saki and Ray-Ray will be reporting to dentsu SA CEO, Koo Govender as they lead FoxP2 into 2022 and beyond. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.