[PRESS OFFICE] Tractor Outdoor, one of South Africa’s largest out of home (OOH) and digital out of home (DOOH) media owners, is expanding its roadside presence within one of the largest and fastest growing suburbs in Cape Town, which will take the media owner’s nationwide RSD (roadside) network to 24 screens – one of the largest in the country. General Manager of Tractor Outdoor Michael Brits, who drove this latest development, says “With Blouberg being one of the fastest growing areas in the Western Cape it was evident that we needed to expand our digital footprint towards the Western Seaboard. The area is fast making a name for itself as a relatively young area boasting a diverse array of amenities and attractions, especially for young families.” The RSD site is located on the R27 West Coast highway just before Bayside Shopping Centre and the Pick n Pay Table View Shopping Centre. Brits believes that they have tapped into an area that could potentially offer more site locations in the near future. Ben Harris, Managing Director at Tractor Outdoor, explains: “With the demand clearly shifting towards digital, we focused our efforts on expanding our digital network; Tractor also has another 13 RSD sites earmarked for Cape Town, and we plan on adding more sites to the network across various other provinces, as well as pivotal arterial routes which we have not previously covered”. “The interest already expressed by our clients on completion of the installation demonstrates a recovery in our advertisers’ industries – and an encouraging resumption of economic activity. As part of our ongoing drive for digital growth within the Western Cape, we continue to see a huge demand in digital advertising; and with programmatic now on the forefront, this location set along the R27 of Cape Town’s busiest roads is another welcome addition for Tractor.” Says Harris. Last year the media owner concluded signage rights with Sasol Forecourts, to expand its nationwide outdoor footprint through an additional 100 digital screens. The team is currently in installation phase to rollout the screens in various timelines, to date a total of 70 screens have been installed with the remaining 30 to be completed by end of April this year. Established almost two decades ago, Tractor Outdoor is a national out of home (OOH) media owner, which specialises in connecting brands to consumers through its network of traditional and digital inventory, as well as its transit networks and ambient platforms. Tractor Outdoor owns one of the largest digital OOH networks in South Africa, and is a member of Outdoor Measurement Council (OMC), Out of Home Media South Africa (OHMSA) and the Interactive Advertising Bureau (IAB). Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.