The Media Online’s weekly column delivering news of award wins, entries, competitions, dates to note and winners in the media industry. Standard Bank Sikuvile Journalism Awards 2022 shortlist announced The 2022 shortlist in the Standard Bank Sikuvile Journalism Awards has been announced.Selected from the 360 entries received this year, the ever-popular Features category boasted the most entries, followed by the Community Service Reporting, Columns/Editorial, Hard News, and Investigative Journalism categories. Unfortunately, there are no shortlisted entries in the new category, Indigenous language reporting in community media (Category 2). There were no shortlisted entries in Category 8: Popular Journalism, as none of the entries met the category criteria. The shortlist was determined by this year’s jury: Tyrone August, Melanie-Ann Feris, Ryland Fisher, Helen Grange, Pippa Green, Thabo Leshilo, Mapi Mhlangu, Lesley Mofokeng, Ruth Motau, Neo Ntsoma, Sue Olswang, Mary Papayya, Gus Silber, and Beauregard Tromp. It is noted with much sadness that jury member Phindile Mary Xaba, passed away this Saturday (7 May) following a battle with cancer. Sanef, the Standard Bank Sikuvile Journalism Awards team and the jury members send their condolences to the family. All category winners receive the coveted Sikuvile Journalism Award Trophy, certificate and R15 000 prize money (to be shared if there is more than one winner in a category). Finalists also receive certificates. Hosted by the South African National Editors’ Forum (SANEF and sponsored by Standard Bank, the Awards will announce all the winners at a live event at The Venue, Melrose Arch, on 25 June 2022. Category 1:   Hard News NAME                                 TITLE                                   COMPANY Category 3:   Community Service Reporting Category 4:   Investigative Journalism Category 5:   Columns / Editorial Category 6:  Visual Journalism (editorial cartoons & graphic layout) Category 7:   Features Category 9:   News Photographs Category 10:   Feature Photographs Category 11:  Sports Photographs Category 12:   Lifestyle These awards will be announced at the Awards event: Category 13:   Upcoming/ Rising Star of the Year Category 14:   Journalist of the Year Category 15:   Allan Kirkland Soga:  Lifetime Achiever Award Entries open for the 2022 lsu Elihle Awards Media Monitoring Africa (MMA) and UNICEF invites journalists within the African content to apply for the lsu Elihle Awards. Applications for this year’s awards opened on the 1st of April 2022 and will close at midnight on the 13th of May 2022. MMA’s awards seek to give children a voice and highlight the status of children in our continent. Journalists are encouraged to submit their story ideas and these can be targeted at any mainstream news medium such as TV, Radio or Online. The finalists will each receive guaranteed financial support of R10 000 to develop their concepts. The final stories will be ranked and the final cash prizes will be awarded as follows: R25 000 (overall winner); R15 000 (2nd place); R10 000 (3rd Place). To enter, click here. Learning from the MOST Awards Legends and Rising Stars They say you can’t teach an old dog new tricks…probably because these Legends invented them already!  And that’s where industry stalwarts – who’ve probably seen it all in their careers – are able to share their experience, insights and wisdom with a new generation of media industry professionals and Rising Stars. Today’s media owners, agencies, and marketing specialists are not merely selling products, they need to become more strategic in understanding their client’s business imperatives, and building solutions that support them in delivering on their strategy. They’re also working in a highly competitive space, where becoming a preferred supplier or partner, requires them to elevate their brands above the competition. One way to do this is to tailor offerings to specific client brands, so they buy into an agency’s innovation and business acumen – and not just their products. Join the MOST Awards online, where the 2021 winners of the media owner and media agency legend and rising star awards share their secrets to success, their advice for those entering the industry, as well as some of the lessons learned along the way. Moderated by Zanele Potelwa, panellists include: Date: 26 May 2022 Time: 10am – 11am Register here. Artfluence Festival winners pay it forward The 2nd annual Artfluence Human Rights Festival, presented by the Centre for Creative Arts at the University of KwaZulu-Natal, opened Tuesday, 3 May, with the announcement by the winners of the Artfluence Human Rights Awards that they would be using their prize monies to pay it forward. Filmmaker Bev Ditsie said that the prize money she has received would be an injection for the foundation she launched to support emerging filmmakers. Ditsie was awarded the 2022 Artfluence Human Rights Champion Award in recognition of her decades of activism for access and equality. Ahmed Kathrada Youth Programmes Manager, Irfaan Mangera, said that he would be using his prize money to develop programmes that can assist school teachers in promoting human rights initiatives. Mangera was awarded the 2022 Artfluence Human Rights Youth Activist Award. The 2022 Artfluence Human Rights Award was presented to veteran poet, novelist and retired journalist Don Mattera in recognition of his several decades of commitment to human rights, activism and community development. A very frail Matera has recently been discharged from hospital and is being cared for at his home. The Don Matera Foundation will continue to build on his legacy. “Our winners are more than just activists, champions, and advocates for human rights. They are also selfless moral leaders who believe in paying it forward so that others can continue to benefit from their reputable legacies. They represent the kind of moral leadership desperately needed in South Africa where corruption and criminality have tainted the characters of many of our political leadership”, said Ismail Mahomed, the Director of the Centre for Creative Arts. The 2nd annual Artfluence Human Rights Festival was not only launched online but also live from the Mandela Capture Site in the uMngeni Municipal District. The site for the festival commemorates the 60th anniversary this year when Nelson Mandela was captured by the apartheid State. Meet ‘Next Generation Leader’ Daniella Galante Last month, RX Africa’s Daniella Galante became the proud recipient of a 2022 UFI Next Generation Leadership (NGL) Grant. We share her story. The NGL Grant is a talent acceleration programme which rewards young professionals in the industry who have shown clear initiative in driving change and innovation. Daniella was one of just six recipients invited to join this year’s programme which will focus on “developing a new talent narrative” for the industry in the wake of COVID. Over the next 8 months she and her fellow candidates will participate in group calls and discussions with industry  leaders, receive support from the UFI Team, and attend an in-person workshop during the UFI European Conference on 4-6 May in Poznań, Poland. The programme will culminate with a group presentation at the UFI Global Congress in Oman in November 2022. Since joining RX Africa as senior digital marketing executive in 2017, Galante has been responsible for digital content creation and implementation on WTM Africa, Africa Travel Week and Fame Week Africa. On May 1 she was promoted to digital marketing and creative manager, capping a remarkable month for her career. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.